# Algorithms

---
+ properties
+ basic blocks
+ arithmetic operators
---

## Exercises in class
Given two sequences of characters, determine if they are one the anagram of the other.

### Alternative discussed solutions
+ For each element of the first sequence verify if there is a corresponding element NOT ALREADY USED in the second sequence. If there is, mark it as USED and proceed with the next element. If such an element does not exist, interrupt the analysis and report that sequences are NOT ANAGRAMS. If completing the analysis, the two sequences are ANAGRAMS.
+ Prepare two counters for each possible symbol (character, digit, punctuation, ...) and set them to 0. For each element in the first sequence, increment the corresponding counter. For each element of the second string, increment the corresponding counter. Compare all counters: if there is a difference, interrupt the analysis and report that sequences are NOT ANAGRAMS. If completing the analysis, the two sequences are ANAGRAMS. 
+ Prepare a counter for each possible symbol (character, digit, punctuation, ...) and set it to 0. For each element in the first sequence, increment the corresponding counter. For each element of the second string, decrement the corresponding counter. If the result of such an operation (decrement) causes a counter to be -1, then there is a mismatch: interrupt the analysis and report that sequences are NOT ANAGRAMS. If all elements of the second sequence have a match, check all counters: if all counters are 0, the two sequences are ANAGRAMS, if not, they are NOT ANAGRAMS. 
+ For each possible symbol (character, digit, punctuation, ...) count the number of occurrences in the first sequence and in the second one. If the numbers are different, interrupt the analysis and report that sequences are NOT ANAGRAMS. If completing the analysis, the two sequences are ANAGRAMS. 

Solutions that are difficult to implement:
+ Analysis of elements in the two strings (number of occurrences) without a systematic approach, *jumping* from one element to another, without a strategy
+ Assign an integer value to each possible symbol and add the contributions for both sequences and define a *rule* that allows to determine, when the total added values are the same, whether they are the result of two anagrams or not. The definition of an empirical rule seems to be way too complex.

> **Notes**
> Identify an emerging recurrent pattern in the alternative solving strategies related to proving a property holds
> Reflect on the definition of mathematical/other _rules_ that differ from the traditionally given "property statement"

## Proposed exercises
Make a flowchart for an algorithm that asks for a positive number of seconds, then converts it into hours, minutes, and seconds, and finally shows the result. Examples:
```bash
26 -> 0h 0m 26s -> 0 0 26
234 -> 0h 3m 54s -> 0 3 54
3725 -> 1h 2m 5s -> 1 2 5
```

---

Make a flowchart for an algorithm that asks for a positive number of seconds, then converts it into days, hours, minutes, and seconds, and finally shows the result.
Examples:
```bash
26 -> 0h 0m 26s -> 0 0 26
234 -> 0h 3m 54s -> 0 3 54
3725 -> 1h 2m 5s -> 1 2 5
93789 -> 1d 2h 3m 9s -> 1 2 3 9
```

## Additional exercises
Make a flowchart for  an algorithm that acquires a positive integer value (it is surely so) representing the side of a square and computes the area. Finally, it shows the result.

---

Make a flowchart for an algorithm that acquires a positive integer value (it is surely so) representing the radius of a circle and computes the length of the circumference and area. Finally, it shows the results.

