# Team Work

## A Miracle Inflammation Cure
A new miracle drug promises to cure inflammation flare-ups after only 3 weeks since initially taking the medication. It is necessary to see the clinical trial data provided in a comma-separated values (CSV) spreadsheet containing the clinical trial data.

The file contains the number of inflammation flare-ups per day for the 60 patients in the initial clinical trial, with the trial lasting 40 days. Each row corresponds to a patient, and each column corresponds to a day in the trial.

Once a patient has their first inflammation flare-up they take the medication and wait a few weeks for it to take effect and reduce flare-ups.

### Data format
The data sets are stored in a CSV format:
+ each row holds information for a single patient,
+ columns represent successive days.

The first three rows of our first file look like this:
```
0,0,1,3,1,2,4,7,8,3,3,3,10,5,7,4,7,7,12,18,6,13,11,11,7,7,4,6,8,8,4,4,5,7,3,4,2,3,0,0
0,1,2,1,2,1,3,2,2,6,10,11,5,9,4,4,7,16,8,6,18,4,12,5,12,7,11,5,11,3,3,5,4,4,5,5,1,1,0,1
0,1,1,3,3,2,6,2,5,9,5,7,4,5,4,15,5,11,9,10,19,14,12,17,7,12,11,7,4,2,10,5,4,2,2,3,2,2,1,1
```
If we look at this information in a table-like, we would have:
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|----|----|----|---|---|----|---|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|---|----|---|----|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 0 | 0 | 1 | 3 | 1 | 2 | 4 | 7 | 8 | 3 | 3  | 3  | 10 | 5 | 7 | 4  | 7 | 7  | 12 | 18 | 6  | 13 | 11 | 11 | 7  | 7  | 4  | 6 | 8  | 8 | 4  | 4 | 5 | 7 | 3 | 4 | 2 | 3 | 0 | 0 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|----|----|----|---|---|----|---|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|---|----|---|----|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 0 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 3 | 2 | 2 | 6 | 10 | 11 | 5  | 9 | 4 | 4  | 7 | 16 | 8  | 6  | 18 | 4  | 12 | 5  | 12 | 7  | 11 | 5 | 11 | 3 | 3  | 5 | 4 | 4 | 5 | 5 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 1 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|----|----|----|---|---|----|---|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|---|----|---|----|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 0 | 1 | 1 | 3 | 3 | 2 | 6 | 2 | 5 | 9 | 5  | 7  | 4  | 5 | 4 | 15 | 5 | 11 | 9  | 10 | 19 | 14 | 12 | 17 | 7  | 12 | 11 | 7 | 4  | 2 | 10 | 5 | 4 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 1 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|----|----|----|---|---|----|---|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|---|----|---|----|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|


Each number represents the number of inflammation bouts that a particular patient experienced on a given day.
For example, (highlighted) value 6 at row 3 column 7 of the above data set means that the third patient was experiencing inflammation six times on the seventh day of the clinical study.

### Analysis \#1
Starting from the information available in the above mentioned file, calculate for each patient the minimum, maximum and average number of flare-ups during the trial period. Print out the information in a report-like format:
```
Patient	Min.	Max.	Avg.
#1		0	18	5.450
#2		0	18	5.425
#3		0	19	6.100
```

### Analysis \#2
Compute the average inflammation per day ACROSS all patients. To help in determining the needed computation, consider the following aspects:
how is the desidered information extracted from the available data?
[hint: manually draw the table and the resulting average you plan to compute]
to complement the average, compute also minimum and maximum number of inflammation flare-ups.

### Analysis \#3
The patient data is longitudinal in the sense that each row represents a series of observations relating to one individual. This means that the change in inflammation over time is a meaningful concept. Compute the variation in inflammation between two consecutive days and visualize it (a step visualization could be a useful choice) and display the resulting table.

The file containing the clinical trial outcomes [data01.csv](../codice/files/data01.csv) is available in the material area of WeBeep.

Every time a computation is requested, interpret it as the request to create a variable that stores the computed information, even if it is not strictly necessary to be able to display it, however we are interested in the resulting dataset.


[file](../codice/inflammatory.py)
